# Face_Recognition

## Overview
This project aims to develop a face recognition model to identify students in a class based on their images. The dataset consists of images of all students in the class along with a mapping file containing image names and corresponding student names.

## Methodology
- **Data Preprocessing**: Haar cascade technique was used to detect and crop faces from the images.
- **Data Augmentation**: Synthetic data was generated by applying image augmentation and modification techniques to increase the dataset size.
- **Feature Extraction**: Principal Component Analysis (PCA) was employed to extract features from the training data.
- **Model Training and Validation**: The extracted features were used to train a face recognition model, which was validated on a separate validation set.
- **Model Evaluation**: The accuracy of the model was assessed using a test set provided by the professor, representing unseen data.

## Results
The face recognition model achieved an accuracy of approximately 93% on the test set, indicating its effectiveness in identifying students from their images.

### Repository includes source code files for data preprocessing, model training, and evaluation.

## Usage
1. Clone the repository:
    git clone https://github.com/vaishnaviu/Face_Recognition.git
2. Navigate to the project directory
3. Run the preprocessing script to crop faces from the images.
4. Generate synthetic data using augmentation techniques if required.
5. Execute the feature extraction and model training scripts.
6. Evaluate the trained model on the test set provided.

## Dependencies
- OpenCV
- scikit-learn
- NumPy
- Pandas

## Contributors
- Vaishnavi
- Srivarsha
- Lona
  
## License
This project is licensed under the [MIT License](LICENSE).
